Agile is one of the most popular approaches to project management because it is flexible, it is adaptable to changes and it encourages customer feedback.
Many teams embrace the Agile approach for the following reasons:
Rapid progress: By effectively reducing the time it takes to complete various stages of a project, teams can elicit feedback in real time and produce working prototypes or demos 
throughout the process.
Customer and stakeholder alignment: Through focusing on customer concerns and stakeholder feedback, the Agile team is well positioned to produce results that satisfy the right people
Continuous improvement: As an iterative approach, Agile project management allows teams to chip away at tasks until they reach the best end result


Agile project management is not a singular framework but an umbrella term that includes a wide range of methodologies, including Scrum, Kanban, Extreme Programming (XP), 
and the Adaptive Project Framework (APF).
Scrum: It is ideal for projects with rapidly changing requirements, using short sprints.
Kanban: It visualizes project 
]progress and is great for tasks requiring steady output.
Lean: It streamlines processes, eliminating waste for customer 
value.
Extreme Programming (XP): It enhances software quality and responsiveness to customer satisfaction.
Adaptive Project Framework (APF): Works well for projects with unclear details, as it adapts to constantly evolving client needs.

The Agile software development life cycle helps you break down each project you take on into six simple stages:
Concept: Define the project scope and priorities
Inception: Build the Agile team according to project requirements 
Iteration: Create code factoring in customer feedback 
Release: Test the code and troubleshoot any issues
Maintenance: Provide ongoing tech support to ensure the product remains serviceable
Retirement: The end of the product lifespan, which often coincides with the beginning of a new one


The four values of Agile are the pillars of Agile methodology. From those values, the team developed 12 principles. 
If the four values of Agile are the weight-bearing pillars of a house, then these 12 principles are the rooms you can build within that house. These principles can be easily adapted
 to fit the needs of your team. 

The 12 principles used in Agile methodology are:
1.Satisfy customers through early, continuous improvement and delivery.When customers receive new updates regularly, they're more likely to see the changes they want within the product. 
This leads to happier, more satisfied customers—and more recurring revenue.
2.Welcome changing requirements, even late in the project. The Agile framework is all about adaptability. In iterative processes like Agile, being inflexible causes more harm than good. 
3.Deliver value frequently. Similar to principle #1, delivering value to your customers or stakeholders frequently makes it less likely for them to churn. 
4.Break the silos of your projects. Collaboration is key in the Agile framework. The goal is for people to break out of their own individual projects and collaborate together more 
frequently. 
5.Build projects around motivated individuals. Agile works best when teams are committed and actively working to achieve a goal. 
6.The most effective way to communicate is face-to-face. If you’re working on a distributed team, spend time communicating in ways that involve face-to-face communication like Zoom calls. 
7.Working software is the primary measure of progress. The most important thing that teams should strive for with the Agile framework is the product. The goal here is to 
prioritize functional software over everything else.
8.Maintain a sustainable working pace. Some aspects of Agile can be fast-paced, but it shouldn't be so fast that team members burn out. The goal is to maintain sustainability 
throughout the project.
9.Continuous excellence enhances agility. If the team develops excellent code in one sprint, they can continue to build off of it the next. Continually creating great work 
allows teams to move faster in the future. 
10.Simplicity is essential. Sometimes the simplest solution is the best solution. Agile aims to not overcomplicate things and find simple answers to complex problems. 
11.Self-organizing teams generate the most value. Similar to principle #5, proactive teams become valuable assets to the company as they strive to deliver value.
12.Regularly reflect and adjust your way of work to boost effectiveness. Retrospective meetings are a common Agile practice. It's a dedicated time for teams to look back and 

reflect on their performance and adapt their behaviors for the future.